Overview

You will design and prototype the reserve a table feature for the mobile version of the Little Lemon restaurant website. 
This task will include, designing information architecture, and incorporating text, animations and graphics of branding and content.


You are encouraged to follow the steps you learned throughout this UX UI course. Therefore, you will be expected to create a solution to the problem, a persona, a journey map, wireframes and an interactive high-fidelity prototype. 

You will need to submit:

A text description of the problem you are solving, 

A link to your persona in,

A link to your journey map in Figma,

A link to your wireframes in Figma and

A link to your prototype in Figma.

Instructions on how to share your Figma designs are described in the last few seconds of the Animate and test your prototype video in this course.


Define and research

Define the problem you are solving. Little Lemon currently has no online reserve-a-table feature which is what you need to design in this exercise.

Use research to create a persona and a journey map representing your target market. Think about who your users may be and why they would want to reserve a table online.

Create a user persona.

Create a user journey map.

Use research to inform design concepts and identify what features are required.

Design and functionality

Create low-fidelity wireframes in Figma to define the features and functionality of the reserve-a-table element.
 You should create a minimum of two wireframes

Create an interactive, high-fidelity visual design Prototype in Figma for the reserve-a-table feature of the Little Lemon website, considering all the best practice design principles learned within the course. 

Include at least two interactive components such as the button and radio buttons already created in a previous exercise. Link the pages together, starting from the reserve table button on the home screen.

Link at least two screens together.

The file provided below contains the Figma home screen and the style guide. They will assist you in completing your assignment. You should download it to your device and then upload it to your account in Figma. 

https://d3c33hcgiwev3.cloudfront.net/vRPSwB0MTT61QAtCqYDy9A_620e4e396d094967825c4a2abc7b97a1_C7513-Exercise-v2.zip?Expires=1709856000&Signature=i9UVBaomyonoSNPKSMzsPX~q3gPP3iLoWU5tW8vj3PqrkiBGRoYIVnFqs~KvgiCec9zFnbpQtYoCl96e8Jobwp2wBD3~ety-xSGai1ykBlzT-8RaYUK15cNvs~XZyVN0TfY9uVNg-AZ9YGzYYTJs5XkOKgQQ6cBSrDM2spL0HCE_&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLTNE6QMUY6HBC5A

Marking criteria

Problem statement			10%
Persona						10%
Journey map					10%
Wireframes					30%	
Prototype						40%

Good luck with your assignment!
